LITEREALITY-AGENT: AN AGENTIC SYSTEM FOR IN-
TERACTABLE 3D INDOOR SCENE RECONSTRUCTION
Zhening Huang1∗†
Yueyan Li2∗
Johnathan Chiu3∗
Xiaoyang Lyu1
Matt Zhou3
Yuxin Yao1
Joan Lasenby1
Shangzhe Wu1
1University of Cambridge
2Imperial College London
3Independent Researcher
litereality.github.io/agent/
SIM-READY 
RECONSTRUCTION
RGB-D SCAN
LiteReality-Agent
Figure 1: Reconstructing a real room with LiteReality-Agent. LiteReality-Agent repurposes the re-
construction as a coding task, where a coding agent writes a Room.py file that can be compiled into a
realistic, interactive, and simulation-ready 3D room.
ABSTRACT
We present LiteReality-Agent, an agentic system for reconstructing real indoor
environments as realistic, articulated, and simulation-ready 3D scenes from RGB-
D scans. At its core, LiteReality-Agent formulates 3D reconstruction as a coding
problem, where a coding agent gathers evidence through designed tools and iter-
atively edits a Python script, Room.py, which can be executed to produce a 3D
digital twin of the room. With this formulation, we build a robust observe-edit-
verify harness that supports evidence gathering, measurement, verification, layout
optimisation, simulation-readiness, and quality control throughout the reconstruc-
tion process. LiteReality-Agent produces high-quality reconstructions suitable
for simulation and downstream embodied AI tasks. Furthermore, as agent capa-
bilities continue to improve rapidly, the system introduced by LiteReality-Agent
remains a strong orchestration framework for agents: it equips them with spe-
cialised tools, structured workflows, and robust verification mechanisms that sub-
stantially improve reconstruction quality and reliability. We have demonstrated
that LiteReality-Agent produces reconstructions that are more geometrically ac-
curate, visually realistic, and simulation-compatible than those generated by the
latest frontier models, such as Astra and Fable. We therefore view LiteReality-
Agent as a practical and important building block for robust real-to-sim systems.
Both the source code and the data-capture application are publicly available.
∗Equal Contribution.
†Project Lead.
1
arXiv:2610.01863v1  [cs.CV]  1 Oct 2026


1
INTRODUCTION
Building a functional, simulation-ready digital twin has long been a holy grail of inverse graphics.
Achieving this goal could unlock a range of applications, including robotic simulation, manufactur-
ing digital twins, and virtual reality. Unlike point-based 3D reconstruction methods (Campos et al.,
2021; Wang et al., 2025) , or conventional mesh reconstruction methods (Murez et al., 2020; Sun
et al., 2021), our goal is to recover a structured environment that can be directly used for interaction
and physical simulation (Huang et al., 2025b). This requires jointly understanding the structure of
the scene, reconstructing objects and their articulations (Zhou et al., 2026; Li et al., 2026), estimating
material and physical properties, and resolving spatial relationships. Integrating these capabilities
into a robust end-to-end system remains a longstanding challenge.
Previous work has taken this direction through several approaches. CAD-based scene reconstruc-
tion retrieves CAD models and positions them within the scene to form a compact representation
(Avetisyan et al., 2019; Kuo et al., 2020; Gao et al., 2024). Compositional 3D reconstruction from
single or multiple images instead uses 3D generative models to reconstruct individual objects and
place them in the scene (Yao et al., 2025), while inverse-rendering pipelines recover object geometry,
orientation, and materials through differentiable rendering (Yan et al., 2023; Yeh et al., 2022). De-
spite this progress, a gap remains in building a robust and scalable system that can turn large-scale
real-world scans into high-quality environments suitable for interaction and physical simulation.
LiteReality (Huang et al., 2025b) takes a step toward this goal with a multi-stage pipeline that con-
verts indoor scans into graphics-ready scenes by integrating scene understanding and parsing, asset
retrieval, appearance recovery, and assembly into a conventional graphics representation. However,
its largely deterministic pipeline limits its ability to handle cases beyond predefined scenarios.
Meanwhile, a growing body of work has explored the use of large language models for 3D scene
generation. Systems such as Holodeck (Yang et al., 2024), SceneCraft (Hu et al., 2024), and Sce-
neSmith (Pfaff et al., 2026) employ LLMs to generate and validate scene layouts and object place-
ments, producing simulation-ready indoor environments in graphics engines. At the object level,
Articraft (Zhou et al., 2026) formulates articulated asset generation as a programming task sup-
ported by a domain-specific SDK and automated verification. More recently, proprietary LLMs
such as GPT-6 Astra and Claude Fable 5 further suggest that coding agents have developed strong
capabilities for understanding and modelling 3D environments. Together, these advances make the
previously daunting problem of functional digital-twin reconstruction increasingly tractable. What
remains missing is a system that can orchestrate such agents while grounding their outputs in real-
world observations and ensuring that the resulting scenes are consistently high quality and suitable
for their intended applications.
To this end, we introduce LiteReality-Agent, a full-stack agentic system for transforming consumer
RGB-D room scans into realistic, articulated, and simulation-ready environments. At its core, we
formulate reconstruction as a coding task: the entire room is represented as an executable Room.py
program that serves as a persistent workspace. A coding agent can access the observations, modify
the program, and compile it into a 3D scene. Because all modifications operate through the same
executable representation, the scene remains readable, reproducible, and directly editable throughout
the reconstruction process.
LiteReality-Agent consists of two stages: Scene Initialisation and Agentic Authoring. Scene Ini-
tialisation first reconstructs each object from its corresponding image evidence as either a static or
articulated asset. The noisy scan-derived layout and object placements are then processed by the
Layout Agent, which resolves collisions, validates object placements and support relationships, and
produces a clean, physically plausible scene layout. The resulting scene is instantiated as an initial
Room.py file. Agentic Authoring subsequently refines the scene through an observe-edit-verify
harness. The agent is equipped with task-specific tools for image selection, rendering and compari-
son, geometric and metric measurements, and scene editing. Explicit quality-control checks, includ-
ing collision and support verification, help ensure that the scene remains complete, structured, and
physically plausible throughout the authoring process. Physical properties and collision geometry
are also estimated by the object reconstruction agents, following a formulation similar to Articraft
(Zhou et al., 2026). The resulting environment is simulation-ready and fully programmable through
Room.py. Representing the entire scene as an executable Python program also enables down-
2


stream editing via natural-language instructions carried out by a coding agent. We demonstrate this
capability through scene decoration, object replacement, and layout adjustment.
We rigorously benchmark LiteReality-Agent on diverse real-world indoor scenes against the deter-
ministic LiteReality pipeline and general-purpose coding agents: GPT-6 Astra running in Codex
and Fable 5.1 running in Claude Code. Our evaluation combines image-based measures of visual
fidelity, geometric measures of reconstruction accuracy and physical plausibility, and human and
agent-based perceptual assessments. LiteReality-Agent achieves the highest mean scores across
all reported visual metrics and perceptual criteria. These results demonstrate the effectiveness of
LiteReality-Agent as an orchestration framework for agentic indoor real-to-simulation reconstruc-
tion. Both the source code and the data-capture application are publicly available.
2
RELATED WORK
Indoor Reconstruction and Real-to-Sim.
Object-centric methods retrieve and align CAD assets
to observations (Avetisyan et al., 2019; Kuo et al., 2020; Gao et al., 2024), while neural repre-
sentations recover scene appearance and geometry (Mildenhall et al., 2020; Kerbl et al., 2023; Ni
et al., 2025). LiteReality (Huang et al., 2025b) and MetaScenes (Yu et al., 2025) convert scans
into asset-based environments. Video2Game (Xia et al., 2024), DRAWER (Xia et al., 2025b), and
HoloScene (Xia et al., 2025a) reconstruct interactive worlds from video; DRAWER additionally
recovers articulation. FIRE3D (Xia et al., 2026a) predicts compositional scene assets with a feed-
forward network. For robot learning, Phone2Proc (Deitke et al., 2023) generates procedural envi-
ronments from mobile captures, RialTo (Torne et al., 2024) constructs digital twins for policy refine-
ment, and PolaRiS (Jain et al., 2026) reconstructs environments for policy evaluation. ACDC (Dai
et al., 2025) instead constructs digital cousins using similar assets.
Object Generation and Articulation.
Image-to-3D methods range from multi-view synthesis
(Liu et al., 2023b; 2024; 2023a; Long et al., 2024) to large reconstruction and generative mod-
els (Hong et al., 2024; Xu et al., 2024; Xiang et al., 2026; Hunyuan3D et al., 2025; Chen et al.,
2026b). CAST (Yao et al., 2025) aligns generated objects into a scene, while URDFormer (Chen
et al., 2024) infers articulated simulation environments from images. Real2Code (Mandi et al., 2025)
predicts articulation as code; Articulate-Anything (Le et al., 2025) iteratively generates and critiques
articulation programs. Articraft (Zhou et al., 2026) couples programmatic asset generation with a
specialised SDK and validation harness.
Language-Guided Scene Authoring.
LayoutGPT (Feng et al., 2023) and Holodeck (Yang et al.,
2024) generate layouts from language; FirePlace (Huang et al., 2025a) and LayoutVLM (Sun
et al., 2025b) refine placement through geometric or visual feedback. 3D-GPT (Sun et al., 2025a),
SceneCraft (Hu et al., 2024), and LL3M (Lu et al., 2025) use language models for programmatic 3D
authoring. The Scene Language (Zhang et al., 2025) combines programs, words, and embeddings
to represent scene structure and appearance. SceneSmith (Pfaff et al., 2026), SAGE (Xia et al.,
2026b), and SceneWeaver (Yang et al., 2025) organise agentic scene-generation pipelines. Blender-
Alchemy (Huang et al., 2024) explores visually guided editing, and BlenderGym (Gu et al., 2025)
benchmarks code-based graphics editing.
Agentic Inverse Graphics.
SceneScript (Avetisyan et al., 2024) and IG-LLM (Kulits et al., 2024)
infer structured scene descriptions from visual inputs. VIGA (Yin et al., 2026) iterates through
code, rendering, and inspection; Thinking in Blender (He et al., 2026) refines scene factors in ex-
ecutable code from a single image. HARMONY (Sun et al., 2026) combines agentic placement
with geometric refinement for monocular scene reconstruction. Agentic Real2Sim (Chen et al.,
2026a) uses vision-language agents to assemble physical simulations from interaction videos. The
AHa-3D research blog (Xu et al., 2026) describes a closely related workflow for video-to-simulation
reconstruction with camera, measurement, and inspection tools. LiteReality-Agent addresses met-
ric RGB-D room reconstruction, combining articulated assets and a persistent scene program with
calibrated multi-view verification and explicit collision and support checks.
3


Input
Literality-scanner
RGB-D + camera matrices
RGB
Depth
Layout + object detection
RoomPlan detected layout and objects
Part I Scene initialisation
1
Layout agent
Before ·  3 clashes
After ·  0 clashes
2
Object routing and generation
Procedural generation
Image-to-3D generation
3
Scene assembly
Initial 3D scene
py
Room.py
walls objs openings
Part II Agentic authoring
py
Room.py
Editable Blender
Python scene
The scan
Ground truth:
RGB-D + poses
1
Agent
calls a tool
2
Tool set
reads scan, renders Room.py
select_view
render_and_compare
measurement
stitching_image
fetch_materials
critic
General file tools
Read
Glob
Edit
Write
piles up
3
Evidence
Renders, views, measurements, 
materials, verdicts, editing instruction
reads it back
4
Agent
Plan for editing
5
Edits Room.py
via Edit / Write
QC gate support check  ·  collision check
Output
Final 3D room
py
Room.py
walls objs openings
Top-down floor plan
Figure 2: End-to-end LiteReality-Agent pipeline. RGB–D scans and detections guide layout
repair and object reconstruction to produce an executable initial room. The authoring agent refines
Room.py through an observe–edit–verify loop, using capture views, measurements, materials, and
rendered comparisons. Control gates bound authoring and check geometry and support. The editable
scene and physical metadata support MuJoCo export.
3
LITEREALITY-AGENT
LiteReality-Agent reconstructs a room in two stages: scene initialisation establishes the layout and
major objects, and agentic authoring refines an executable scene program through an observe–edit–
verify loop (Fig. 2). Implementation details and supporting examples are provided in Appendix B.
3.1
INPUT: RGB–D SCANS AND DETECTION RESULTS
The input consists of RGB–D scans and detection results from the LiteReality Scan application,
including the room layout and object bounding boxes.
3.2
SCENE INITIALISATION
We follow LiteReality (Huang et al., 2025b) in parsing the room shell and reconstructing objects
separately before assembly, replacing asset retrieval with generation from the scan’s own images.
Layout Agent.
The layout is represented as a scene graph of structural elements and objects, with
relations for support, wall adjacency, functional grouping, and potential clashes. These relations
distinguish physical support from association: a chair belongs to a table but rests on the floor. They
also distinguish incompatible overlaps from expected box overlap, such as a chair tucked beneath a
table.
The Layout Agent corrects noisy detections before object reconstruction. Geometric checks identify
objects outside the room, embedded in walls, unsupported, or overlapping incompatibly. Deter-
ministic repairs make small placement and dimension adjustments; image-based reasoning handles
ambiguous cases, such as an incorrectly sized or merged detection. Proposals are accepted only
when they improve geometric consistency and remain within cumulative limits relative to the scan.
The corrected boxes guide both asset generation and final placement, preventing later assembly from
restoring the original errors.
Object reconstruction.
For each object, selected capture views are processed by an image-
generation model to produce a clean reference image. Structured or articulated objects are routed
to procedural generation, while visually complex, predominantly static objects use TRELLIS.2 (Xi-
ang et al., 2026). Generated meshes are checked for malformed geometry, detached fragments, and
4


Algorithm 1: Stage 2 agentic authoring loop: the
agent iteratively edits Room.py based on obser-
vations using the tools in Table 1.
1: env, tools ←Room.py, defined_tools
2: observations ←SCAN( )
3: history, turn, qc_passed ←[ ], 0, FALSE
4: while turn < T and not qc_passed do
5:
actions ←LLM(observations, env, tools, history)
6:
result ←EXECUTE(actions, env, observations)
7:
append (actions, result) to history
8:
if result edited the environment then
9:
qc_passed, feedback ←QC(env, observations)
10:
append feedback to history
11:
end if
12:
turn ←turn + 1
13: end while
Table 1: Authoring tools and shared evidence
utilities. View and render tools support room,
wall, and object scopes.
Tool / utility
Purpose
select_views
Select informative capture frames for a
target
render_and_
compare
Compare calibrated scene renders with
photographs
measurement
Measure dimensions and positions in
metres
stitch_wall
Assemble a rectified wall image and cov-
erage mask
fetch_material
Fetch PBR texture maps and adjust their
colour
bash, glob
read, edit
Find files, read code and image evidence,
and create or edit programs
fused background surfaces. A bounded retry loop for generated chairs regenerates the reference and
mesh when these checks fail.
The procedural branch follows Articraft (Zhou et al., 2026): a coding agent writes an object.py
program defining geometry, separate moving parts, and joints. We compile physical properties
alongside the visual asset, retaining authored values and otherwise estimating mass from category
and size, inertia from geometry, and friction from material priors. Convex collision geometry and
per-object simulation checks help identify unusable assets before room assembly.
The scene program.
The shell and reconstructed objects are assembled at their corrected scales
and poses. Room.py defines the room, object instances, materials, and added geometry, while
procedural assets retain their object.py programs. This is the agent’s persistent workspace: edits
are written to code and reproduced by rebuilding the scene.
3.3
AGENTIC AUTHORING
The second stage observes the capture, edits the scene program, and verifies the result through
rendered comparisons and geometric checks. Algorithm 1 summarises the loop, and Table 1 lists its
tools.
3.3.1
EVIDENCE TOOLS
Image selection at three levels.
The agent queries the whole room, one wall, or one object. Room-
level selection greedily chooses complementary frames that cover the walls. Wall-level selection
ranks views by the wall’s projected on-screen area. Object-level selection uses per-object visibility
from the render manifest to find clear views of the target. A minimum frame separation reduces
near-duplicate observations. These scopes let the agent move from inspecting the overall layout to
checking a local detail.
Rendering and comparison.
The same three levels determine how comparisons are labelled
(Fig. A7a–c). Room views label visible objects by name; wall views outline only the selected wall;
object views draw its bounding box. Each pair uses the same calibrated camera for the render and
photograph. Thus, a room-level mismatch can be traced to a named object or surface and inspected
in isolation. Changed scene and object programs are rebuilt before rendering so that comparisons
show the current edit.
Wall stitching and measurement.
Capture frames are projected onto a metric wall plane and
combined into one head-on reference, selecting visible observations while marking unobserved re-
gions. A grid expresses distance along the wall and height above the floor. For example, the white-
board in Fig. A8d can be located and sized from its edges relative to the red and blue ticks, then
placed using those coordinates in Room.py. Surface queries also pair this rectified reference with
an orthographic render for checking materials and fixtures. Raw views remain necessary for ob-
5


jects protruding from the wall. PBR retrieval supplies texture maps whose colour can be adjusted to
match the observations.
Authoring harness.
The harness guides four ordered modules: first, matching wall materials;
second, adding fixtures and lighting; third, placing small objects; and finally, refining existing pro-
cedural assets through multi-view renders of their geometry, appearance, and articulation. Each
module builds on the previous result. To keep the scene organised for later editing, added geometry
is grouped into named objects with explicit support (rests_on) or attachment (attached_to)
relationships. Subsequent agents can then identify and edit objects while accounting for these rela-
tionships.
3.3.2
CONTROL AND QUALITY GATES
Budgeted control.
Since Visual quality is hard to set reliable automatic stopping criterion, so we
control authoring through a bounded loop with explicit gates. Sessions have turn and tool-call limits.
During the final 10% of calls, exploration and self-checks are disabled so the agent completes and
saves its edits. The program is then rebuilt and validated. The budget controls when authoring stops;
geometric and support gates determine whether the result passes validation.
Geometric and support gates.
Layout repair uses coarse boxes, so the authored room requires
another check on its actual geometry. This is particularly important for chair–table pairs with valid
box overlap and for newly added objects. Mesh intersections determine whether a collision exists;
convex approximations estimate corrective translations. Bounded corrections move unanchored ob-
jects, are saved to Room.py, and are checked again after rebuilding.
Support is checked separately: an object may avoid collisions yet float above its intended surface.
We compare object undersides with declared supports, report missing supports or invalid contact
heights, and check that articulated assets retain separate moving parts. Unresolved findings return
to authoring; checklist-based visual review can provide additional appearance feedback. Table 3
reports support and intersection measurements on the resulting scenes.
3.4
SIMULATION-READY EXPORT
We export the room to MuJoCo (Todorov et al., 2012) as individual objects with mass, inertia, col-
lision geometry, and joints. Walls and attached fixtures stay fixed; movable objects have free joints,
and articulated parts use hinge or slide joints. Separate collision shapes preserve space beneath ta-
bles and inside furniture. The exporter accounts for asset placement and scale, estimating physical
properties when needed.
4
RESULTS
We evaluate visual fidelity, geometric consistency, and perceived similarity on ten indoor scenes,
comparing LiteReality-Agent with LiteReality and two general-purpose agent baselines.
4.1
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
Scenes, baselines, and inputs.
We evaluate LiteReality-Agent on ten indoor scenes with 620
capture views, comparing against LiteReality (Huang et al., 2025b) and two general-purpose agents:
GPT-6 running in Codex and Fable 5.1 running in Claude Code. Each general-purpose agent is
evaluated with RGB photographs alone (RGB-only) and with additional geometric observations
from LiteReality Scan (+Scan), including depth, camera calibration, a point cloud, and a RoomPlan
layout. All methods use the same photographs for each scene; LiteReality and LiteReality-Agent
receive the same scan information as the +Scan baselines.
Evaluation protocol.
All reconstructions are aligned to the recorded camera coordinate system
without changing scene scale or individual object placements, and rendered at 960 × 720 using
the recorded camera poses and intrinsics. We evaluate fidelity at the captured viewpoints rather
than held-out novel views. All methods share the lighting and colour-management settings of the
6


Table 2: Mean visual fidelity over 620 capture
views from ten scenes, under shared cameras
and scene-specific lighting. Bold is best.
Method
SSIM ↑
PSNR
(dB) ↑
RMSE ↓
LPIPS ↓
LiteReality
0.5609
11.881
0.2635
0.6709
Fable 5.1 (RGB-only)
0.5307
10.681
0.3008
0.7197
Fable 5.1 (+Scan)
0.5649
12.287
0.2506
0.6422
GPT-6 (RGB-only)
0.5742
11.549
0.2694
0.6910
GPT-6 (+Scan)
0.6004
12.967
0.2323
0.6250
LiteReality-Agent (ours)
0.6105
14.129
0.2033
0.5392
Table 3: Geometric consistency and plausibility
over ten scenes. Depth MAE over 611 frames;
near-contact supported/total. Bold is best.
Method
Depth MAE
(cm) ↓
Bottom
near-contact ↑
Inters.
pairs ↓
LiteReality
15.03
85/85 (100%)
43
Fable 5.1 (RGB-only)
58.64
71/102 (69.6%)
36
Fable 5.1 (+Scan)
16.32
78/97 (80.4%)
54
GPT-6 (RGB-only)
40.51
65/94 (69.1%)
14
GPT-6 (+Scan)
13.33
58/92 (63.0%)
24
LiteReality-Agent (ours)
10.50
86/86 (100%)
0
RGB input
LiteReality-Agent (ours)
GPT-6 Astra + full input
GPT-6 Astra + RGB scans
Fable 5.1 + full input
Fable 5.1 + RGB scans
LiteReality
Figure 3: Qualitative comparison with reconstruction baselines. Three representative scenes
compare the RGB input and RGB–D scan with LiteReality-Agent, GPT-6 Astra and Fable 5.1 with
and without scan input, and LiteReality. All reconstruction results are rendered from the same
calibrated camera viewpoint.
corresponding LiteReality-Agent scene while retaining their own materials and textures, including
material emission. This lighting is not independently calibrated to the reference photographs. Addi-
tional input and evaluation details are provided in Appendix C.
4.2
VISUAL FIDELITY
We evaluate SSIM, PSNR, RMSE, and LPIPS on reference photographs and renders paired at the
same resolution, without additional image alignment or appearance correction. We retain all 620
capture views and average per-frame scores with equal weight, so scenes with more views con-
tribute more to the aggregate; metric configurations are provided in Appendix C. As shown in Ta-
ble 2, LiteReality-Agent achieves the best mean on all four metrics. Compared with GPT-6 (+Scan),
the strongest alternative, it improves PSNR by 1.162 dB and reduces LPIPS by 13.7%; compared
with LiteReality, the corresponding gains are 2.248 dB and 19.6%. Figure 3 presents qualitative
comparisons on three representative scenes.
4.3
GEOMETRIC CONSISTENCY AND PHYSICAL PLAUSIBILITY
We evaluate three aspects of geometric consistency: depth MAE (cm) over 611 frames with shared
valid depth, bottom near-contact (the proportion of furniture objects with at least one sampled bot-
tom point within 1 cm of an external supporting surface), and the number of furniture pairs with
intersecting triangle surfaces. Furniture counts vary across methods, so object-based results must be
interpreted alongside these counts. These measures assess specific aspects of physical plausibility,
rather than establishing full physical validity. Implementation details are provided in Appendix D.
7


Figure 4: Representative reconstruction comparisons. A kitchen (top) and meeting room (bot-
tom), with captured RGB photographs, reconstructed views, and point-cloud/scene plan views.
Results.
Table 3 shows that LiteReality-Agent outperforms both scan-informed agent baselines on
all three criteria, achieving a depth MAE of 10.50 cm (21.2% lower than GPT-6 (+Scan)), bottom
near-contact for all 86 identified furniture objects, and no detected furniture–furniture surface inter-
sections. Compared with LiteReality, it maintains 100% bottom near-contact while reducing depth
MAE from 15.03 to 10.50 cm and detected intersection pairs from 43 to zero.
4.4
EFFECT OF SCAN DATA ON GENERAL-PURPOSE AGENTS
Adding LiteReality Scan data to the same RGB photographs improves all four visual metrics for both
general-purpose agents. PSNR increases from 11.549 to 12.967 dB for GPT-6 and from 10.681 to
12.287 dB for Fable 5.1. Depth MAE decreases from 40.51 to 13.33 cm and from 58.64 to 16.32 cm,
respectively, corresponding to reductions of 67.1% and 72.2%.
These fidelity gains do not consistently extend to the object-based layout measures: detected fur-
niture intersection pairs increase from 14 to 24 for GPT-6 and from 36 to 54 for Fable 5.1, while
GPT-6’s bottom near-contact rate decreases from 69.1% to 63.0%. These comparisons support the
complete system but do not isolate the harness from its other components; intersection counts also
depend on the differing furniture populations.
4.5
QUALITATIVE RESULTS
Figure 4 shows a kitchen and meeting room with complementary capture and reconstruction views,
with additional rooms and views provided in Appendix A. The editable reconstruction supports
changes to materials, furniture, and fixtures without repeating capture or reconstruction; Figure 5
illustrates controlled programmatic edits, while Appendix B.7 provides implementation details and
complementary natural-language editing examples. Figure 6 further demonstrates the exported
kitchen in MuJoCo, including its response to shaking and a Franka manipulation example. Separate
bodies, support relations, and joints enable physical interaction; however, these demonstrations do
not measure robot-task success or identify real-world dynamics.
4.6
HUMAN AND AGENT-BASED PERCEPTUAL EVALUATION
Human and agent evaluators rate LiteReality (Huang et al., 2025b), Fable 5.1 (+Scan), GPT-6
(+Scan), and LiteReality-Agent on layout accuracy, object similarity, and overall scene similarity,
each on a five-point scale (higher is better).
8


(a) Original
(b) Grey carpet
(c) Cleared area
(d) Pendant lamps
(a) MuJoCo scene
(b) After shaking
(c) Franka pick-and-place
Figure 5: Scene editing. Programmatic edits
to the reconstructed office: carpet recolouring,
furniture removal, and pendant-light addition.
Figure 6: Simulation and interaction. The re-
constructed kitchen in MuJoCo, after shaking,
and in a Franka pick-and-place example.
Layout ↑
Object ↑
Overall ↑
Method
Hum.
A1
A2
Hum.
A1
A2
Hum.
A1
A2
LiteReality
2.03
3.00
3.00
1.95
1.70
1.70
2.11
1.80
1.80
Fable 5.1 (+Scan)
2.80
3.10
3.00
2.66
2.50
2.30
2.82
3.00
2.30
GPT-6 (+Scan)
3.11
4.10
3.60
2.98
3.20
2.90
3.00
3.60
2.90
LiteReality-Agent
4.60
5.00
4.90
4.58
4.80
4.20
4.54
4.90
4.20
Table 4: Perceptual scores (1–5; higher is better). Human means: 13 submissions, 65 ratings per
method. A1 and A2: agent evaluators.
Evaluation protocol.
Human participants compare reference images with matched-view recon-
struction renders and orthographic plan views, with method identities anonymised and positions
randomised per scene. Each participant rates all four methods on five scenes from the ten-scene
benchmark, giving 65 participant–scene evaluations across 13 verified submissions; ratings are av-
eraged with equal weight and scene coverage is uneven. Agent-1 and Agent-2 rate the same methods
and criteria. Appendix E gives the full protocol.
Results.
LiteReality-Agent has the highest human means (Table 4): layout 4.60, object similarity
4.58, and overall similarity 4.54, exceeding GPT-6 (+Scan) by 1.49, 1.60, and 1.54, respectively.
For overall similarity, our method wins 53 of 65 paired participant–scene comparisons against GPT-
6 (+Scan), with eleven ties and one loss. Both agent evaluators also rank LiteReality-Agent first
and GPT-6 (+Scan) second; their scores differ from human ratings. These ratings measure perceived
fidelity. The small sample, uneven coverage, and dependent ratings do not establish statistical sig-
nificance or physical validity. Agent ratings do not replace human judgments.
5
CONCLUSION
We presented LiteReality-Agent, an open-source system that treats 3D reconstruction as a coding
problem, turning RGB-D scans into realistic, articulated, and simulation-ready scenes. Its observe-
edit-verify harness combines executable scene programs, specialised tools, and evidence-driven ver-
ification to improve reconstruction quality and reliability. Across ten scenes, our results show gains
in visual fidelity, geometric consistency, and perceptual quality over frontier-model agent baselines.
As coding agents advance, this orchestration framework offers a practical foundation for robust
real-to-sim systems and downstream embodied AI.
9


REFERENCES
Armen Avetisyan, Manuel Dahnert, Angela Dai, Manolis Savva, Angel X. Chang, and Matthias
Nießner. Scan2CAD: Learning CAD model alignment in RGB-D scans. In CVPR, 2019.
Armen Avetisyan, Christopher Xie, Henry Howard-Jenkins, Tsun-Yi Yang, Samir Aroudj, Suvam
Patra, Fuyang Zhang, Duncan Frost, Luke Holland, Campbell Orme, Jakob Engel, Edward Miller,
Richard Newcombe, and Vasileios Balntas. SceneScript: Reconstructing scenes with an autore-
gressive structured language model. In ECCV, 2024.
Carlos Campos, Richard Elvira, Juan J. Gómez Rodríguez, José M. M. Montiel, and Juan D. Tardós.
ORB-SLAM3: An accurate open-source library for visual, visual-inertial and multi-map SLAM.
IEEE TRO, 2021.
Guanxiong Chen, Qianjun Xia, Jiawei Peng, Heng Zhang, Pengyu Jing, Bole Ma, Justin Qian,
Yixian Cheng, Ziyi Jiao, Bingyang Zhou, Yiduo Qu, Luoxin Ye, Kaifeng Zhang, Kunyi Wang,
Weijia Zeng, Yunuo Chen, Pengzhi Yang, Ziqiu Zeng, Siyuan Luo, Huamin Wang, Chao Liu,
Alan Yuille, Fan Shi, Changxi Zheng, Yunzhu Li, Chenfanfu Jiang, and Peter Yichen Chen.
Agentic Real2Sim: Physics-based world modeling with vision-language agents. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2607.19190, 2026a.
Xingyu Chen, Fu-Jen Chu, Pierre Gleize, Kevin J Liang, Alexander Sax, Hao Tang, Weiyao Wang,
Michelle Guo, Thibaut Hardin, Xiang Li, Aohan Lin, Jiawei Liu, Ziqi Ma, Anushka Sagar, Bowen
Song, Xiaodong Wang, Jianing Yang, Bowen Zhang, Piotr Dollár, Georgia Gkioxari, Matt Feiszli,
and Jitendra Malik. SAM 3D: 3Dfy anything in images. In CVPR, 2026b.
Zoey Chen, Aaron Walsman, Marius Memmel, Kaichun Mo, Alex Fang, Dieter Fox, and Abhishek
Gupta. URDFormer: A pipeline for constructing articulated simulation environments from real-
world images. In RSS, 2024.
Tianyuan Dai, Josiah Wong, Yunfan Jiang, Chen Wang, Cem Gokmen, Ruohan Zhang, Jiajun Wu,
and Li Fei-Fei. Automated creation of digital cousins for robust policy learning. In CoRL, 2025.
Matt Deitke, Rose Hendrix, Ali Farhadi, Kiana Ehsani, and Aniruddha Kembhavi. Phone2Proc:
Bringing robust robots into our chaotic world. In CVPR, 2023.
Weixi Feng, Wanrong Zhu, Tsu-Jui Fu, Varun Jampani, Arjun Akula, Xuehai He, Sugato Basu,
Xin Eric Wang, and William Yang Wang. LayoutGPT: Compositional visual planning and gener-
ation with large language models. In NeurIPS, 2023.
Daoyi Gao, David Rozenberszki, Stefan Leutenegger, and Angela Dai.
DiffCAD: Weakly-
supervised probabilistic CAD model retrieval and alignment from an RGB image. ACM TOG,
2024.
Yunqi Gu, Ian Huang, Jihyeon Je, Guandao Yang, and Leonidas Guibas. BlenderGym: Benchmark-
ing foundational model systems for graphics editing. In CVPR, 2025.
Guangzhao He,
Rundong Luo,
Wei-Chiu Ma,
and Hadar Averbuch-Elor.
Thinking in
blender:
Staged executable inverse graphics with vision-language models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2606.02580, 2026.
Yicong Hong, Kai Zhang, Jiuxiang Gu, Sai Bi, Yang Zhou, Difan Liu, Feng Liu, Kalyan Sunkavalli,
Trung Bui, and Hao Tan. LRM: Large reconstruction model for single image to 3D. In ICLR,
2024.
Ziniu Hu, Ahmet Iscen, Aashi Jain, Thomas Kipf, Yisong Yue, David A. Ross, Cordelia Schmid,
and Alireza Fathi. SceneCraft: An LLM agent for synthesizing 3D scenes as blender code. In
ICML, 2024.
Ian Huang, Guandao Yang, and Leonidas Guibas.
BlenderAlchemy: Editing 3D graphics with
vision-language models. In ECCV, 2024.
Ian Huang, Yanan Bao, Karen Truong, Howard Zhou, Cordelia Schmid, Leonidas Guibas, and
Alireza Fathi. FirePlace: Geometric refinements of LLM common sense reasoning for 3D ob-
ject placement. In CVPR, 2025a.
10


Zhening Huang, Xiaoyang Wu, Fangcheng Zhong, Hengshuang Zhao, Matthias Nießner, and Joan
Lasenby. LiteReality: Graphics-ready 3D scene reconstruction from RGB-D scans. In NeurIPS,
2025b.
Team Hunyuan3D, Shuhui Yang, Mingxin Yang, Yifei Feng, Xin Huang, Sheng Zhang, Zebin He,
Di Luo, Haolin Liu, Yunfei Zhao, Qingxiang Lin, Zeqiang Lai, Xianghui Yang, Huiwen Shi, Zibo
Zhao, Bowen Zhang, Hongyu Yan, Lifu Wang, Sicong Liu, Jihong Zhang, Meng Chen, Liang
Dong, Yiwen Jia, Yulin Cai, Jiaao Yu, Yixuan Tang, Dongyuan Guo, Junlin Yu, Hao Zhang, Zheng
Ye, Peng He, Runzhou Wu, Shida Wei, Chao Zhang, Yonghao Tan, Yifu Sun, Lin Niu, Shirui
Huang, Bojian Zheng, Shu Liu, Shilin Chen, Xiang Yuan, Xiaofeng Yang, Kai Liu, Jianchen Zhu,
Peng Chen, Tian Liu, Di Wang, Yuhong Liu, Linus, Jie Jiang, Jingwei Huang, and Chunchao Guo.
Hunyuan3D 2.1: From images to high-fidelity 3D assets with production-ready PBR material.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2506.15442, 2025.
Arhan Jain, Mingtong Zhang, Kanav Arora, William Chen, Marcel Torne, Muhammad Zubair Ir-
shad, Sergey Zakharov, Yue Wang, Sergey Levine, Chelsea Finn, Wei-Chiu Ma, Dhruv Shah,
Abhishek Gupta, and Karl Pertsch. PolaRiS: Scalable real-to-sim evaluations for generalist robot
policies. In RSS, 2026.
Bernhard Kerbl, Georgios Kopanas, Thomas Leimkühler, and George Drettakis. 3D gaussian splat-
ting for real-time radiance field rendering. ACM TOG, 2023.
Peter Kulits, Haiwen Feng, Weiyang Liu, Victoria Abrevaya, and Michael J. Black. Re-thinking
inverse graphics with large language models. TMLR, 2024.
Weicheng Kuo, Anelia Angelova, Tsung-Yi Lin, and Angela Dai. Mask2CAD: 3D shape prediction
by learning to segment and retrieve. In ECCV, 2020.
Long Le, Jason Xie, William Liang, Hung-Ju Wang, Yue Yang, Yecheng Jason Ma, Kyle Vedder,
Arjun Krishna, Dinesh Jayaraman, and Eric Eaton. Articulate-Anything: Automatic modeling of
articulated objects via a vision-language foundation model. In ICLR, 2025.
Ruining Li, Yuxin Yao, Matt Zhou, Chuanxia Zheng, Christian Rupprecht, Joan Lasenby, Shangzhe
Wu, and Andrea Vedaldi. Instruct-Particulate: Scaling feed-forward 3D object articulation with
kinematic control. arXiv preprint arXiv:2606.14699, 2026.
Minghua Liu, Chao Xu, Haian Jin, Linghao Chen, Mukund Varma T., Zexiang Xu, and Hao Su.
One-2-3-45: Any single image to 3D mesh in 45 seconds without per-shape optimization. In
NeurIPS, 2023a.
Ruoshi Liu, Rundi Wu, Basile Van Hoorick, Pavel Tokmakov, Sergey Zakharov, and Carl Vondrick.
Zero-1-to-3: Zero-shot one image to 3D object. In ICCV, 2023b.
Yuan Liu, Cheng Lin, Zijiao Zeng, Xiaoxiao Long, Lingjie Liu, Taku Komura, and Wenping Wang.
SyncDreamer: Generating multiview-consistent images from a single-view image. In ICLR, 2024.
Xiaoxiao Long, Yuan-Chen Guo, Cheng Lin, Yuan Liu, Zhiyang Dou, Lingjie Liu, Yuexin Ma,
Song-Hai Zhang, Marc Habermann, Christian Theobalt, and Wenping Wang. Wonder3D: Single
image to 3D using cross-domain diffusion. In CVPR, 2024.
Sining Lu, Guan Chen, Nam Anh Dinh, Itai Lang, Ari Holtzman, and Rana Hanocka. LL3M: Large
language 3D modelers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.08228, 2025.
Zhao Mandi, Yijia Weng, Dominik Bauer, and Shuran Song. Real2Code: Reconstruct articulated
objects via code generation. In ICLR, 2025.
Ben Mildenhall, Pratul P. Srinivasan, Matthew Tancik, Jonathan T. Barron, Ravi Ramamoorthi, and
Ren Ng. NeRF: Representing scenes as neural radiance fields for view synthesis. In ECCV, 2020.
Zak Murez, Tarrence van As, James Bartolozzi, Ayan Sinha, Vijay Badrinarayanan, and Andrew
Rabinovich. Atlas: End-to-end 3D scene reconstruction from posed images. In ECCV, 2020.
Junfeng Ni, Yu Liu, Ruijie Lu, Zirui Zhou, Song-Chun Zhu, Yixin Chen, and Siyuan Huang. De-
compositional neural scene reconstruction with generative diffusion prior. In CVPR, 2025.
11


Nicholas Pfaff, Thomas Cohn, Sergey Zakharov, Rick Cory, and Russ Tedrake. SceneSmith: Agentic
generation of simulation-ready indoor scenes. In ICML, 2026.
Chunyi Sun, Junlin Han, Weijian Deng, Xinlong Wang, Zishan Qin, and Stephen Gould. 3D-GPT:
Procedural 3D modeling with large language models. In 3DV, 2025a.
Fan-Yun Sun, Weiyu Liu, Siyi Gu, Dylan Lim, Goutam Bhat, Federico Tombari, Manling Li, Nick
Haber, and Jiajun Wu. LayoutVLM: Differentiable optimization of 3D layout via vision-language
models. In CVPR, 2025b.
Jiaming Sun, Yiming Xie, Linghao Chen, Xiaowei Zhou, and Hujun Bao. NeuralRecon: Real-time
coherent 3D reconstruction from monocular video. In CVPR, 2021.
Shufan Sun, Chen Wang, Enxin Song, Jiatao Gu, and Lingjie Liu. HARMONY: Hierarchical agentic
reasoning for MONocular image-to-scene synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2609.26793, 2026.
Emanuel Todorov, Tom Erez, and Yuval Tassa. MuJoCo: A physics engine for model-based control.
In IROS, 2012.
Marcel Torne, Anthony Simeonov, Zechu Li, April Chan, Tao Chen, Abhishek Gupta, and Pulkit
Agrawal. Reconciling reality through simulation: A real-to-sim-to-real approach for robust ma-
nipulation. In RSS, 2024.
Jianyuan Wang, Minghao Chen, Nikita Karaev, Andrea Vedaldi, Christian Rupprecht, and David
Novotny. VGGT: Visual geometry grounded transformer. In CVPR, 2025.
Hongchi Xia, Zhi-Hao Lin, Wei-Chiu Ma, and Shenlong Wang. Video2Game: Real-time, interac-
tive, realistic and browser-compatible environment from a single video. In CVPR, 2024.
Hongchi Xia, Chih-Hao Lin, Hao-Yu Hsu, Quentin Leboutet, Katelyn Gao, Michael Paulitsch, Ben-
jamin Ummenhofer, and Shenlong Wang. HoloScene: Simulation-ready interactive 3D worlds
from a single video. In NeurIPS, 2025a.
Hongchi Xia, Entong Su, Marius Memmel, Arhan Jain, Raymond Yu, Numfor Mbiziwo-Tiapo, Ali
Farhadi, Abhishek Gupta, Shenlong Wang, and Wei-Chiu Ma. DRAWER: Digital reconstruction
and articulation with environment realism. In CVPR, 2025b.
Hongchi Xia, Tianhang Cheng, Wei-Chiu Ma, and Shenlong Wang. FIRE3D: Feed-forward inter-
active 3D scene reconstruction within a minute. arXiv preprint arXiv:2609.08848, 2026a.
Hongchi Xia, Xuan Li, Zhaoshuo Li, Qianli Ma, Jiashu Xu, Ming-Yu Liu, Yin Cui, Tsung-Yi Lin,
Wei-Chiu Ma, Shenlong Wang, Shuran Song, and Fangyin Wei. SAGE: Scalable agentic 3D scene
generation for embodied AI. In CVPR, 2026b.
Jianfeng Xiang, Xiaoxue Chen, Sicheng Xu, Ruicheng Wang, Zelong Lv, Yu Deng, Hongyuan Zhu,
Yue Dong, Hao Zhao, Nicholas Jing Yuan, and Jiaolong Yang. Native and compact structured
latents for 3D generation. In CVPR, 2026.
Congrong Xu, Siyuan Bian, and Jun Gao.
AHa-3D: Agentic tool use for Real2Sim with
GPT-6 Astra.
Research blog post, 2026.
URL https://kevinxu02.github.io/
real2sim-indoor-site/.
Jiale Xu, Weihao Cheng, Yiming Gao, Xintao Wang, Shenghua Gao, and Ying Shan. InstantMesh:
Efficient 3D mesh generation from a single image with sparse-view large reconstruction models.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2404.07191, 2024.
Kai Yan, Fujun Luan, Miloš Hašan, Thibault Groueix, Valentin Deschaintre, and Shuang Zhao.
PSDR-Room: Single photo to scene using differentiable rendering. In SIGGRAPH Asia, 2023.
Yandan Yang, Baoxiong Jia, Shujie Zhang, and Siyuan Huang. SceneWeaver: All-in-one 3D scene
synthesis with an extensible and self-reflective agent. In NeurIPS, 2025.
12


Yue Yang, Fan-Yun Sun, Luca Weihs, Eli Vanderbilt, Alvaro Herrasti, Winson Han, Jiajun Wu, Nick
Haber, Ranjay Krishna, Lingjie Liu, Chris Callison-Burch, Mark Yatskar, Aniruddha Kembhavi,
and Christopher Clark. Holodeck: Language guided generation of 3D embodied AI environments.
In CVPR, 2024.
Kaixin Yao, Longwen Zhang, Xinhao Yan, Yan Zeng, Qixuan Zhang, Lan Xu, Wei Yang, Jiayuan
Gu, and Jingyi Yu. CAST: Component-aligned 3D scene reconstruction from an RGB image.
ACM TOG, 2025.
Yu-Ying Yeh, Zhengqin Li, Yannick Hold-Geoffroy, Rui Zhu, Zexiang Xu, Miloš Hašan, Kalyan
Sunkavalli, and Manmohan Chandraker. PhotoScene: Photorealistic material and lighting transfer
for indoor scenes. In CVPR, 2022.
Shaofeng Yin, Jiaxin Ge, Zora Zhiruo Wang, Chenyang Wang, Xiuyu Li, Michael J. Black, Trevor
Darrell, Angjoo Kanazawa, and Haiwen Feng. Vision-as-inverse-graphics agent via interleaved
multimodal reasoning. In ECCV, 2026.
Huangyue Yu, Baoxiong Jia, Yixin Chen, Yandan Yang, Puhao Li, Rongpeng Su, Jiaxin Li, Qing Li,
Wei Liang, Song-Chun Zhu, Tengyu Liu, and Siyuan Huang. MetaScenes: Towards automated
replica creation for real-world 3D scans. In CVPR, 2025.
Yunzhi Zhang, Zizhang Li, Matt Zhou, Shangzhe Wu, and Jiajun Wu. The Scene Language: Repre-
senting scenes with programs, words, and embeddings. In CVPR, 2025.
Matt Zhou, Ruining Li, Xiaoyang Lyu, Zhaomou Song, Zhening Huang, Chuanxia Zheng, Chris-
tian Rupprecht, Andrea Vedaldi, and Shangzhe Wu. Articraft: An agentic system for scalable
articulated 3D asset generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2605.15187, 2026.
13


A
ADDITIONAL RECONSTRUCTION COMPARISONS
Figures A1 and A2 show all nine reconstructed rooms using the same camera calibration and image
crop as the main gallery, pairing human-height views with orthographic plan views.
RGB input
Studio office
RGB-D scan
LiteReality-Agent
perspective
RGB-D
orthogonal
LiteReality-Agent
orthogonal
Private office
Library
Boardroom
Meeting room
Figure A1: Additional complementary view comparisons. Each case shows the RGB input, the
corresponding RGB–D scan.
14


Figure A2 complements Figure A1 with a second matched viewpoint for each room, revealing additional
scene regions and enabling a broader assessment of reconstruction consistency across viewpoints.
RGB input
Seminar room
RGB-D scan
LiteReality-Agent
perspective
RGB-D
orthogonal
LiteReality-Agent
orthogonal
Kitchenette
Garden room
Bedroom
Figure A2: Complementary reconstruction comparisons across all evaluation rooms.
15


B
LITEREALITY-AGENT IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
This appendix supplements Sec. 3 with the capture format, implementation choices, and intermedi-
ate visual examples.
B.1
CAPTURE DATA AND LAYOUT REPAIR
Table 5 details the scan data used for reconstruction.
Capture component
Role in reconstruction
RGB frames
Appearance references for objects, materials, and fixtures.
Depth and confidence
Geometric evidence and visibility checks.
Camera calibration
Intrinsics and poses for projection and matched-view rendering; timestamps
associate observations.
Derived point cloud
A spatial view of the captured surfaces and missing regions.
RoomPlan detections
Room structure, openings, and semantic object boxes with metric dimen-
sions and poses.
Table 5: Capture data used by LiteReality-Agent. The point cloud is derived from RGB–D observa-
tions; the detections provide initial layout estimates rather than final object geometry.
Graph construction and support.
Graph nodes represent the room, structural surfaces, openings,
and objects. Relations record opening hosts, support, wall adjacency, and functional groups. Height
and footprint overlap identify support candidates, with wall-hung objects distinguished from floor-
standing furniture. Objects without plausible support are flagged. Expected containment, including
chairs beneath tables, is distinct from conflicting footprints.
Bounded repair.
Before cropping and generation, candidate layouts are compared by error count,
then summed error magnitude. Fidelity limits apply cumulatively against the original scan. The
implementation caps horizontal displacement at 0.6 m and vertical displacement at 0.08 m. Per-
axis size changes are limited to 15% for tables, desks, chairs, sofas, and beds, and 35% for other
categories. Erroneous merges may be split into their original members; measured objects cannot be
deleted to remove violations. Repair stops on validation, repeated lack of progress, or six agent-
assisted rounds. Corrected boxes are handed to room assembly (Fig. A3).
Figure A3: From capture to an initial room. The running kitchen example shows the RGB–D
point cloud, detected boxes and layout, the reconstructed shell, and the assembled initial scene. Fine
surface appearance, fixtures, and small objects are refined during authoring.
16


B.2
LAYOUT AGENT: RELATIONS, REPAIR, AND BEFORE–AFTER RESULTS
The layout stage corrects the detected boxes before they determine object crops, reconstruction
dimensions, and placement. It combines a geometric scene graph, a deterministic repair search, and
an optional image-guided agent for unresolved cases. This ordering avoids propagating a misplaced
or oversized detection into asset generation.
Relations constrain the edits.
The graph distinguishes physical support from functional group-
ing. An object has one support parent—a floor, wall, ceiling, or another object—or is flagged as
unsupported. A chair may belong to a desk’s functional group while being supported by the floor.
This distinction allows a desk and its chair to move together without claiming that the desk supports
the chair. Separate relations encode wall adjacency, opening hosts, and expected containment, such
as a chair tucked under a table. These category-aware exceptions prevent plausible box overlaps
from being treated as errors.
Propose, validate, and retain.
The geometric search tries wall alignment, corner fitting, separa-
tion, and small changes to box dimensions. Each candidate is checked against the room boundary,
walls, other objects, and the scan-fidelity limits above. When geometry alone leaves an unresolved
case, the optional agent receives the current box, nearby walls and objects, the violation, reference
photographs, and feedback from rejected proposals. It can propose translation, resizing, attachment
to one or two walls, or splitting a merged box into its original members. Proposals must preserve
existing anchors, satisfy cumulative fidelity bounds, and improve the geometric score before they are
retained. Rejected edits leave the accepted layout intact; unresolved findings remain in the report.
Recorded outcomes and scope.
The saved runs reduce the layout checker’s error count from 30
to 0. Eight scenes required changes; the two initially valid scenes were unchanged. Across 107 input
boxes, 29 were moved and four were resized. These runs were resolved by the deterministic search
and therefore do not measure the additional benefit of image-guided proposals. A zero count means
that the boxes pass this checker’s tolerances and category exemptions. Generated meshes and later
authored objects still require the separate collision and support checks in Appendix B.6.
17


a) Office: coordinated desk–chair translation
Before: 2 violations
Chair1
Table1
After: 0 violations
Chair1
Table1
1 m
b) Kitchen: fitting installed units into corners
Before: 3 violations
Dishwasher0
Storage3
After: 0 violations
Dishwasher0
Storage3
1 m
c) Meeting room: chair separation and wall alignment
Before: 6 violations
C3
C5
C6
C7
C8
TV0
After: 0 violations
C3
C5
C6
C7
C8
TV0
1 m
Figure A4: Before and after layout repair. Plans are drawn directly from the saved input and
output boxes for three scenes. Red outlines in the left column identify boxes that are changed; blue
outlines show their corrected states on the right. Dashed red outlines retain their original footprints,
and arrows show centre translations. Each pair uses the same scale and viewpoint; grey objects and
walls provide unchanged context. Meeting-room labels abbreviate chairs as C and the television as
TV. These are layout-stage comparisons, before detailed mesh reconstruction and authoring.
Coordinated movement.
In the office (Fig. A4a), Table1 and Chair1 both move by
(0.1445, 0.0124, 0) m. The shared 14.5 cm translation preserves their relative arrangement and re-
moves the two recorded violations without resizing either box.
Corner fitting and local separation.
In the kitchen (b), Storage3 and Dishwasher0 each
move about 5.3 cm and reduce their two horizontal dimensions by about 8.5 cm, resolving three
boundary/wall violations. In the meeting room (c), five chairs are separated and the television is
aligned to its wall, reducing six violations to zero. All six boxes retain their dimensions; the largest
centre shift is 14.1 cm.
18


B.3
OBJECT RECONSTRUCTION AND PHYSICAL METADATA
Figure A5 shows both reconstruction routes using clean references generated from scan views. Raw
captures remain the evidence for checking fidelity: completed occluded parts are estimates.
Figure A5: Object reconstruction from capture references. Each row shows captured views,
the cleaned reference, and a reconstructed asset. The sink cabinet uses procedural geometry with
articulated parts; the sofa uses image-to-3D generation.
Generated-mesh rejection and retries.
Mesh checks look for implausible aspect ratios, discon-
nected fragments, extensive flat boundary surfaces, and dense bottom geometry suggesting that a
floor or background was fused into the asset. The chair repair loop regenerates both the image ref-
erence and the mesh, varying the reconstruction seed between attempts. A retry is checked again
before acceptance. If the retry budget is exhausted, the implementation retains the original asset and
records the unresolved failure.
Estimating physical properties.
The procedural program defines links, joint axes, pivots, and
limits. Authored mass or density overrides automatic estimates. Otherwise, category-dependent oc-
cupancy density times bounding-box volume estimates total mass, which is distributed across links
using geometric volume estimates. Inertia and centre of mass are computed from link geometry;
convex-hull and box estimates provide fallbacks for degenerate meshes. Material-name priors sup-
ply friction and restitution when unspecified. Restitution is retained in the asset metadata but is not
directly used by the MJCF exporter. Each physical-property record retains its source.
Collision geometry and solver checks.
Near-convex parts can use a single hull; larger concave
parts use convex decomposition. The decomposition budget depends on link mass to limit excessive
contact complexity for lightweight objects. Per-object MuJoCo checks comprise a short drop, indi-
vidual joint release, and tilted-gravity sliding. They report penetration, separation, unstable motion,
and friction behaviour. Joint tests distinguish frame collisions from sibling interactions that may
require a particular opening sequence.
19


B.4
EVIDENCE TOOLS AND AUTHORING STATE
Selecting and comparing views.
The view selector supports room, wall, and object queries
(Fig. A6). Room queries seek complementary coverage; local queries rank views of the requested
target. The render tool rebuilds the current program and pairs the output with its capture photograph
using recorded calibration. This exposes discrepancies in shape, placement, and appearance without
asking the agent to align unrelated viewpoints.
Figure A6: View selection at three scopes. Room queries cover several surfaces, wall queries focus
on one structural element, and object queries return observations of an individual asset. Numbers
identify capture frames.
(a) Room: object labels
(b) Wall: selected outline
(c) Object: bounding box
Figure A7: Evidence for authoring. (a–c) Render–photograph pairs use room, wall, and object
annotations to locate discrepancies at progressively finer scopes.
Persistent editing and materials.
Room.py contains room-level construction and placement,
while object.py contains a procedural asset’s build recipe. Material retrieval saves colour, rough-
ness, and normal maps together with a reusable recipe; recolouring changes the diffuse appearance
while retaining the spatial pattern. Rebuilding these programs is the handoff between modules,
ensuring that the exported geometry reflects the saved edits.
20


B.5
STITCHED WALL VISUALIZATIONS
Wall stitching and measurement.
Figure A8 shows stitched wall references, their coverage, and
the metric overlay. A metric grid is laid on the detected wall plane. Each output pixel corresponds
to a 3D location that is projected into candidate frames using their calibration. Selection favours
frontal, central, nearby observations, with depth visibility used when available. Selected frames fill
the rectified image without blending; a coverage mask records unobserved pixels. The metric-grid
tool overlays distance along the wall and height above the floor. These coordinates can be used
directly to place fixtures. The planar projection can distort protruding objects, so raw capture views
remain necessary for lamps, clutter, and furniture.
(a) Stitched wall reference
(b) Observed-pixel coverage mask
(c) Stitched whiteboard wall
(d) Metric-grid overlay
Figure A8: Wall stitching and metric measurement. Two walls from the running kitchen example
are rectified from calibrated capture frames. (a) The stitched reference retains visible seams and
projection artefacts around protruding furniture. (b) Its coverage mask distinguishes observed pixels
(white) from unobserved pixels (black). (c–d) A second stitched wall is shown before and after
adding a metric grid: red ticks measure distance along the wall and blue ticks measure height above
the floor, in metres. The whiteboard edges can be read against this grid to guide placement and
sizing in the scene program.
21


B.6
QUALITY CONTROL AND MUJOCO INTEGRATION
Collision and support are separate checks.
A chair can overlap a table’s box without intersect-
ing its actual legs or top. We therefore use mesh intersections to establish clashes and convex ap-
proximations to estimate a correction. The resolver moves unanchored objects horizontally within
a bounded correction budget, writes the accumulated changes to the scene program, and rebuilds
before rechecking. It reports cases that cannot be solved by these local motions.
For a declared support, the validator compares the object’s underside with the support’s top surface
and measures footprint overlap. Gaps above 1 cm and penetration exceeding 2 cm are blocking
findings; less than half of the footprint overlapping the support is reported for review. Missing or
unknown support declarations also block validation. For recognised floor-standing objects without
an explicit declaration, the floor-contact fallback uses a 5 cm tolerance. Structural attachments are
recorded separately and are exempt from gravity-support checks. These implementation checks
differ from the evaluation metric in Appendix D, which measures sampled bottom near-contact and
is not the authoring gate.
Visual review and bounded sessions.
Deterministic checks address geometric failure modes; a
separate, checklist-based model review can assess visual discrepancies. The maximum turn count
and tool-call budget constrain the authoring session, while a reserved final portion of calls directs
completion of edits. The reserve is configurable. Enforcing it by disabling exploratory tools requires
a pre-tool hook; adapters without this hook implement a hard call-budget stop. In either case, the
saved program must still be built and checked, and termination is not a QC verdict.
Exporting the physical scene.
The exporter combines four sources:
shell geometry from
Room.py, object poses and support declarations from room_layout.json, appearance from
Room.glb, and per-object physics records. Walls are decomposed into structural boxes around
door and window openings. Attached fixtures are fixed, movable objects have free joints, and artic-
ulated parts use their specified hinge or slide joints.
The transform between an asset’s local geometry and its placed instance also places its collision
geometry and joint frames. When size changes, derived mass scales with volume, authored mass is
retained, and inertia is recomputed from the placed geometry. Collider bounds are checked against
the recorded object bounds. Joints with compiled effort metadata receive motor actuators; velocity
limits are retained as controller metadata. Newly authored objects without physics records use
export-time mass and collider estimates, and these fallbacks appear in the export report.
Figure 6 in the main paper illustrates the exported scene under perturbation and robot interaction.
22


B.7
ADDITIONAL SCENE-EDITING DEMONSTRATIONS
Figure A9 shows natural-language editing examples that complement the controlled programmatic
edits in Fig. 5. The requests change the wall material, clear space for a meeting, and add decorations
to the reconstructed office.
Figure A9: Natural-language scene editing. The original reconstruction is shown with three re-
quested edits: expose the brickwork, clear the floor for a standup meeting, and decorate the room
for watching the World Cup. Each instruction is applied as an edit to Room.py.
Controlled programmatic demonstrations.
The variants in Fig. 5 each start independently from
one saved 3D office scene and use an identical camera, resolution, and render configuration. The
following details describe these main-paper examples.
Material editing.
The carpet edit changes its colour while retaining the spatial texture, room ge-
ometry, and furniture placement. This isolates an appearance change from structural reconstruction.
Object removal.
The layout edit removes the meeting-table group and four guest-chair groups.
Walls, shelves, and other fixtures remain in place, exposing the floor previously occupied by the
furniture.
Fixture addition.
The lighting edit adds three pendant assemblies above the existing table. Each
assembly contains a shade, suspension cord, and light source, with a ceiling-attachment declaration.
The change affects both geometry and illumination.
Provenance and scope.
The images in Fig. 5 are Blender renders of the saved office reconstruc-
tion, produced by a reproducible scene-editing script. They are qualitative examples of what the
editable representation permits, not additional measurements of autonomous agent success or physi-
cal validity. The render manifest records the source scene, camera, resolution, and sampling settings
for each variant.
23


C
ADDITIONAL EXPERIMENTAL DETAILS
Scan inputs.
For each scene, the +Scan condition supplements the RGB photographs with aligned
LiDAR depth and confidence maps, camera intrinsics, poses, timestamps, a derived point cloud,
and a RoomPlan USDZ layout collected or generated by LiteReality Scan. The RoomPlan layout
encodes room structure and the semantic categories, dimensions, positions, and orientations of de-
tected objects. LiteReality and LiteReality-Agent receive the same scan information as the +Scan
baselines.
Evaluation views and camera alignment.
The ten evaluation scenes contain 27–91 capture views
each. All six method–input configurations are evaluated on the same scene–frame pairs, yielding
3,720 reference–render comparisons. Reconstructed Blender scenes are aligned to the coordinate
system of the recorded camera poses while preserving scene scale and individual object placements.
Rendering uses the recorded camera poses, with intrinsics adjusted to 960 × 720.
Rendering configuration.
All scenes are rendered in Blender 5.2 using Cycles, with up to 64 sam-
ples per pixel and OptiX denoising. For each scene, all methods use the same light objects, world il-
lumination, and colour-management settings from the corresponding LiteReality-Agent scene, while
retaining their own materials, textures, and material emission. Architecture hidden for cutaway
views is restored where identified. The shared lighting is not independently calibrated to the refer-
ence photographs.
Image preprocessing.
Reference photographs are downsampled from 1920 × 1440 to 960 × 720
using Lanczos interpolation and paired with renders by scene and frame identifier. No additional
warping, cropping, masking, rotation, or exposure/colour correction is applied. All capture frames,
including dark renders, are retained.
Metric implementation.
SSIM, PSNR, and RMSE are computed on stored RGB values nor-
malised to [0, 1], without linearisation. SSIM uses an 11 × 11 Gaussian window with σ = 1.5,
population covariance, and averaging across RGB channels. LPIPS uses pretrained AlexNet with
version-0.1 calibration weights, evaluated at 960 × 720 with inputs normalised to [−1, 1].
Aggregation.
For each metric, we report the arithmetic mean of per-frame scores over all 620
views. In particular, PSNR is averaged over individually computed per-frame PSNR values. Views
receive equal weight, so scenes with more capture views contribute more to the aggregate.
D
GEOMETRIC EVALUATION DETAILS
Depth agreement.
We compute the mean absolute error between rendered and captured depth
using pixels with valid depth in the capture and all evaluated outputs, including RoomPlan. We
average per-frame errors over the 611 frames with shared valid pixels and report depth MAE in
centimeters.
Bottom near-contact.
We count furniture objects with at least one sampled bottom point within
1 cm of an external supporting surface. We report both the count and its percentage relative to
all identified furniture objects in each method’s output. This criterion measures bottom support
proximity; it does not require every leg or base component to contact a supporting surface.
Furniture intersections.
We detect strictly intersecting triangle surfaces in the evaluated source
meshes using a 0.1 mm plane-side tolerance. This tolerance is not a penetration-depth threshold.
Each furniture pair is counted once per scene, and counts are summed across the ten scenes. Inter-
sections within a single furniture object and between furniture and architecture are excluded. The
resulting counts describe detected surface intersections and require semantic interpretation.
Object populations.
Object-based metrics use the furniture objects identified in each method’s
output. These populations differ across methods, so near-contact rates and intersection counts must
be interpreted alongside the reported furniture counts.
24


E
ADDITIONAL PERCEPTUAL EVALUATION DETAILS
Rating criteria.
We evaluate LiteReality, Fable 5.1 (+Scan), GPT-6 (+Scan), and LiteReality-
Agent on three criteria using a five-point scale, with higher scores indicating closer agreement with
the reference scene. Layout accuracy concerns room structure and object positions and orientations.
Object similarity concerns object shape, scale, and appearance. Overall scene similarity assesses the
reconstruction as a whole. We report the criteria separately without constructing a composite score.
Questionnaire design.
The questionnaire presents a reference RGB image alongside reconstruc-
tion renders from the corresponding camera viewpoint, together with an orthographic plan-view
comparison. Methods are displayed anonymously, with their positions randomised independently
for each scene; displayed letters therefore do not identify a fixed method across scenes. Each par-
ticipant evaluates five scenes sampled without replacement from the ten-scene benchmark and rates
all four methods on all three criteria.
Sample inclusion and aggregation.
The reported human results use 13 completed submissions
with resolved method identities, comprising 65 participant–scene evaluations and 780 individual
ratings. Each method receives 65 ratings per criterion. We report arithmetic means, giving each
participant–scene evaluation equal weight. Scene coverage ranges from three to eleven participants,
so scenes are not equally weighted. Three additional submissions containing unresolved anonymous
method identifiers are excluded from the current aggregation pending verification of the identifier
mapping.
Agent-based evaluation.
We report two sets of agent-generated ratings, designated Agent-1 and
Agent-2, for the same four methods and three criteria. Agent ratings are aggregated and presented
separately from human ratings.
Additional comparisons.
LiteReality-Agent achieves the highest human mean overall scene sim-
ilarity in each of the ten scenes. Its mean advantage over GPT-6 (+Scan) on this criterion is 1.54
points for humans and 1.30 points for each agent evaluator. Agent-1 scores LiteReality-Agent above
the human mean on all three criteria, whereas Agent-2 assigns a higher layout score but lower object
and overall similarity scores. Thus, the evaluations agree on the two leading methods while differing
in absolute score levels.
25


F
LIMITATIONS AND FUTURE WORK
Physical properties lack ground-truth validation.
The physical properties used for simulation
rely largely on language-model inference and category or material priors, with geometry-based esti-
mates for quantities such as inertia. We do not have ground-truth measurements of these properties
for the reconstructed objects. Simulation export and consistency checks therefore do not establish
that the scenes reproduce real-world dynamics. Collecting measured physical properties and vali-
dating simulated behaviour against real interactions are important future work.
Layout consistency does not guarantee accuracy.
RoomPlan detections can contain errors in
object dimensions and poses that persist in the reconstructed layout. Our collision and support cor-
rections improve geometric consistency, but neither these checks nor visual agreement with captured
images guarantee recovery of the true layout. Future work should more tightly integrate image ev-
idence with collision and support constraints during layout refinement, and evaluate the resulting
layouts against measured ground truth.
Broader evaluation should also cover larger and more structurally diverse environments.
26
